Hello and welcome in this lecture.
We are going to be adding a little bit more functionality to our main menu by reparenting it's to some
C++ as you can see here in my class.
I think my parent class is currently main menu.
And furthermore we are going to bind properties from the C++ to actual buttons in our UI that we've
put together here in the widget constructor.
You either lay out each thing.
Fantastic.
Let's dive in and see how that is possible.
So the next step is getting our buttons to actually have an effect in our gameworld such as hosting
and joining.
Now the way that we are going to do this is by creating a C++ parent class to our widget so that we
can control all the logic behind our main menu widget in C++ which is what we'd prefer to do.
Obviously you can do this in blue print as well.
But the C++ is often a hard thing to figure out.
So we're going to be covering that.
Let's start off by creating a C++ base class for our main menu.
Let's go to our content browser and go to add new and to the new C++ clas.
Now you won't find the widget that we're looking for here.
We're going to do show all classes and we're looking for the you use a widget that we've used before.
In fact you don't prefix.
You don't use the prefix in this class list it's just the user widget which you'll find here.
So go ahead and select it go to next.
And now I do want this to be.
In a separate subsystem a separate folder so we can easily find the classes that are related and strip
them out.
So I'm going to go to choose a folder for the path.
And in there I'm going to right click to create a new folder new folder and it's going to be called
the same as our subfolder in the content in the blue print content directory which is menu system.
That is straight forward.
So we've got the menu system subfolder we'll be using that one and we're going to be calling this widget
the main menu.
Very straightforward.
Okay so let's go ahead and create that class and wait for it to finish compiling.
The next thing we're going to do once it has finished compiling is we're going to be reparenting it
to the widget blueprint and then we're going to be doing something called binding the property to the
button so we're going to try and create a button you property on AC plus plus class which automatically
gets bound to a button in the widget that we've created.
In fact it requires that that button is there and it allows us to interact with a button that we've
placed in blue print very very easily with very little binding code at all.
And that all hours to receive events from the class and it will allow us to update things like text
in the interface as well as all that sort of thing.
So we're going to be starting off with the host button once we've figured out how to do this and they
will be moving on to join because that will require more UI to enter our address so the compile has
completed.
That means I have a class open in Visual Studio.
Let's hop on over to that and have a look at our menu system we can see that we've got our main menu
C++ and Dot H.
Not very much in them at the moment but enough to get us going.
So let's go back in to the unreal Ed.
What we want to be doing is reparenting the widget BPA.
So let's open the widget P as a starting point if you don't have it open already.
Can I bring it in to the main window.
Well that's a pretty nice looking you I am quite proud of that one.
I'm quite proud that it's quite good.
So we're what we're going to do next is we're going to reap parent this you right now you noticed that
there is an A class propertys that you might expect from elsewhere.
So for this you have to go to the graph and you'll notice that then we got class settings show up in
the toolbar.
So then in class settings you can click on that and then the details is in a slightly different place
down at the bottom left here.
And you can choose the parent class click the drop down and you'll see that we've got the main menu
dropdown from before and that's all good.
That's nice easy.
Simple very easy indeed.
So what we're going to do next is try and create that BALLAnd widget.
I was telling you about what is a bind widget.
Well let's have a look at the documentation for this.
This is actually a properly difficult to find piece of documentation in fact and Real's and seemed to
have some proper documentation on this themselves at all.
So this is the best I can find by a chap called Ben Humphries and his blog post.
And he can use this as a reference.
It's included in the resources for your lecture.
Now bind it.
Is this really really clever metter property of YOU property as you can see here.
It's very simple to use its metter equals bind widget on something that has a type.
I think basically of being a you use a widget like the utx blogs or you button.
And what this does is it automatically attaches it to a widget in your sub basically in a sub widget.
So how are we going to set this up.
Well let's go over to our.
Main Menu and create a new property here.
So I'm going to go you property.
And I don't need to bother making it blue print readable or writeable I think the only thing I'm going
to do is that bind widgets so let's copy it from this blog post it's metter equals bind widget.
Go back over here we go.
And then we want to create it of the right type.
So we want a button let's have a look for what the type of the button that we want.
Like me you might be tempted to look for you button.
So that is actually correct.
That's what you're going to find.
And here's the documentation page against again linked.
So the important thing is just that we have the class name which is you button.
And I am going to do a forward declaration at this point and define it in detail in adult file.
So class you button star.
And what button do we want.
It's going to be the host button for starters Although while we're at it we might as well create one
for the join button as well.
So let's go ahead and copy and paste that and create a second one for the join button and fix up an
indentation.
That visual studio so kindly messes up for us every single time.
Let's go ahead and build that and see what result we get.
In fact why not make the result your job.
I want you to see what errors you might get.
Currently what's going on and.
Great hypothesis of how you think.
Bind which it is actually operating.
So to reiterate how does bind widget work.
Look at the errors and try and describe how it functions.
Simple easy challenge pulls video and have a go.
Okay welcome back.
Let's dive in to this challenge solution so my builder succeeded.
Let's go over into unreel right over here and have a look and see if we can compile at w.p. main menu.
Have a go at compiling and it goes up.
Non optional widget binding host not found and non optional widget binding join not found.
So what is going on here.
See if we can fix it.
We go back into the designer and think a little bit about why maybe this button isn't actually hooking
up.
Well currently there's no reason to say that this button is a join button or a houseboat and this button
is a join button.
Why is that.
Well if you had looked at the documentation which you are perfectly reasonable thing to do in a challenge
you can always look at documentation.
You may have realized that you need to name these the same as you named the properties.
So this button unschool 55 which was a bad name anyway can be changed now to being called host and the
other one can be changed to being called join sets.
Do that and see now whether our widget will happily compile.
Yes it does no more compiler results so that means that we're getting the right thing in the C++.
Okay so that was short but sweet but we have bound these widgets to the host and to the join in the
next lecture we're going to.
Prove that by actually getting some log messages when we click them that will be the first step to actually
hooking them up to something useful.
Very exciting.
So let's see you in the next lecture.